Su Bingtian is another Zhongshan native and is so far the only man of Asian descent to have run a sub-10 second 100m, which is widely regarded as the benchmark of world class in sprinting circles. Su achieved the feat at last year's Prefontaine Classic in Eugene, Oregon, US.

In addition, the Zhongshan Hot Spring Resort Golf Club was the first standard golf course on the Chinese mainland.

The city is now preparing to unveil another sporting first: it is pitching to become China's first ever baseball town.

Its 21 teams and 12 playgrounds might seem small fry compared to the thousands of baseball diamonds in the US, but in a nation where table tennis and badminton are top of the list for both parents choosing sports for their kids and ordinary citizens looking to get more exercise, the number seems mammoth in a Chinese city of 3 million people.

"We have a tradition of placing extra emphasis on sports development in Zhongshan," said Qiu Shuhong, a senior official from the Zhongshan municipal government. "Sports play an important role in the municipal government's long-term overall development plan."

A total of 150 million yuan has been set aside as an initial investment to help build Zhongshan's Dongsheng town into an international baseball town, Qiu disclosed.

Baseball has continued to grow in popularity in the town over the last decade, despite the fact that it was ejected from the Olympic family following the Beijing Games. The sport is, however, expected to make its return at the Tokyo Games in 2020.

Baseball is played at 20 primary and middle schools in Dongsheng, and there are more than 500 Little League players in the town. Twelve schools have makeshift baseball grounds and trainers and coaches have been brought in to guide young players.

The town's baseball side Team Pandas represented China at the Cross-Straits Championship, and they also took part in the Little League Baseball Series. Seven players from Zhongshan have attended Major League Baseball development centers in China.

City pitches for new sporting first

"We still have a lot to learn, especially from our neighbors South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan, but believe me, with the support from the local government and people's enthusiasm, the future of baseball in Zhongshan looks very bright," Qiu added.

Zhongshan real estate developer Feng Xiaolong is an avid baseball fan and has been deeply involved with the development of baseball in Dongsheng town. He has arranged for baseball championships to receive financing and invited the sport's leading figures from MLB, the Japanese Baseball League and the China Baseball Association to give clinics and hold training sessions. In addition, he is responsible for establishing Team Pandas.