Chinese internet ecosystem company LeEco has stood at the future direction of cellphone manufacture and given a new definition to lead an era, Feng Xing, the company's vice president, said on Wednesday in Beijing.

"The handset 2.0 era has ended; with the smartphone as a representative, the future should be Eco-phone," said Feng on the launching ceremony of Le Pro 3.

With its edge as one of the biggest online video and sports live broadcast companies in China, LeEco provides tailored content and user interfaces for its smartphone users.

"In the Eco-phone era, the cellphone is not only used for information searches, chatting, shopping, buying take-away or car hailing, which can be realized through simple information exchanges. Via artificial intelligence technologies, customized services will be supplied to each different individual in the future," Feng said.

Powered by the Snapdragon 821 chipset, LeEco's new handset has a battery capacity of 4,070mAh and supports two Nano SIM cards.

The 5.5-inch Le Pro 3 also features a 7.5mm thick body and supports 24W QuickCharge 2.0, which can get the power from zero to 50 percent in 30 minutes.

The price of the Le Pro 3 starts at 1,799 yuan ($269.75) for the 4GB RAM and 32GB ROM storage model and 1,999 yuan for the 4GB RAM and 64GB ROM storage model.

Feng also announced that its smarphone business has seen sales of 17 million sets and has landed in Thailand, India and Russia, with more expansion plans in the near future.

During the Monday LeEco online shopping festival, the tech giant raked in 4.48 billion yuan across its ecosystem.

On Tuesday, the Beijing-based company said in a statement that it has raised $1.08 billion to bankroll the development of its so-called Le Supercar, an internet-savvy electric vehicle, setting a Series A financing record in the global automobile industry.

Founded in 2004, LeEco started as a video-streaming service provider akin to Netflix Inc, but it rapidly grew into a heavyweight with a presence in smartphones, TVs and electronic cars.